So the next step for us in this app is we want to make it so that when we hit log in and we have the
right user name and password combination right now we don't have that that will actually log us in.
And then we can see a list of all the users in the app.
So if you'd like to do this as a challenge you're just going to show up in a new list view and another
activity you can go ahead and try that.
Or you can just come along with me so if you want to go do that as a challenge.
Hit pause.
Now but if you're here to come along with me let's go ahead and the first thing that we want to do is
we want to make a new activity that we can move to.
So let's make a new activity here.
And with this we just want an empty activity.
And as far as the name goes you can choose whatever you want but I think probably something like user
list activity describes what should be going on in the of this activity so that will go ahead and create
the next thing that we need to do is update the visual side of this user list activity.
So we'll give this a second update here.
But basically we're just going to add a list few that's going to take up the entire screen here.
So give Android studio a second here to finish its business.
All right so we finally got that loaded up and again we just want to take a list view and have it fill
up the whole screen so we'll add that here.
And with that it's taking up most of the screen so just go ahead and add some constraints around the
edge and we'll give it an idea of list view so that we can access it inside of our app.
All right.
With that in place let's move over to the user list activity and I guess before we do that maybe we
should write the code to get to this activity first then we can worry about filling up that list view
right because if we wrote the code to see the list view but we can't get to it now we're going to have
a problem.
So the first place that we want to go to is there's a lot of different situations where we want to go
to that activity if they are able to successfully sign up or they're able to successfully log in or
they're just logged in from the get go and so let's make a method that will we can just call whenever
we want to that will move us to that next activity.
So I'm going to call this public void and show user list.
Nothing special about this name it's just what I've decided to call it.
And in here basically what we want to do is create an intent will call intent.
This will be a new intent.
We get the application context and we want to move to the user list activity class.
So that will get us there and then if that gives us the intent if we want to go move there we're going
to have to say start activity and then pass that intent right inside.
So once we have that in place we now have to figure out where it is that we want to call.
So again this show user list we should do this after the user successfully is able to sign up.
So say show user list there if they're able to successfully log in.
That's the situation when we would want to show the user list.
And there's one more that's you know if they open up the app and they've already been logged in well
then we would want to automatically take them there.
So we're going to add one more piece of code here will do in an IF statement to just see if somebody
has logged in already and if they are we'll just take them there.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go get to our parse user and with our parse user we are
going to do dot get current user.
And we're going to see if this is not equal to know and if it's not equal to no well then that means
that we can go ahead.
Oh not when I want to copy paste.
That means that we'll be able to do the show user list or this.
Go ahead and type that in there.
OK.
So that will get us to the correct location.
And now the next part for us is to actually set up that list view.
So let's move over to our list view activity and just write sort of the generic code that we've done
over and over again to fill up a list view.
So we're going to type out list view and you can go ahead and Khalida everyone I'm just going to call
it lowercase list view.
I'm going to say this is equal to find user id art ID dot list for some kind of blowing through this
because you know we've done this so many times it should almost be second nature for you then we need
to create an array list that's going to be of a bunch of strings that's going to be the name of the
users.
So let's go ahead and call this something like user names.
And once we have this we'll say this is equal to a new capital array list and we again we want to specify
that this should be a bunch of strings inside of there after we have that in place.
Let's go ahead and just add something simple in there so to say user names that add in.
We'll just put a test one in there to make sure things are working.
Then after we've done that we have to create an array adapter so make an array adapter that will call
array adapter and say this is equal to a new array adapter and we're going to pass in this for the context.
Lowercase Android are not lay out a dot.
There's our simple list item 1 and then will pass in user names which is that array.
So now that we've got that really the last thing is set in the adapter on the list fusel say List View
set adapter and we'll pass an array adapter there and with all of this we are ready to move forward
and just test and see if this is even going to work.
So as we're waiting for the emulator to show up here kind of the next steps that we're going to have
to be working for is actually going inquere in part to say hey who are all the users we want to add
those to a particular array list and then have those show up inside of the list view.
So that's going to be sort of our next step to see if we can't get things running there.
And it looks like you know the emulators taken a little bit of time here so maybe let's go start working
on this query in order to make that happen.
So I'm going to go down here and we're going to start a new parse query was do capital parse query except
usually put like parse object inside of here.
This time we want to get parsed user so we're going to put that inside of our angle brackets and we'll
just go ahead and call this a queery like we've done before and we'll say this is equal to a new.
In this case parse user dot get queery So that's different from the parse object and it looks like probably
the emulator finished up.
So because we've already logged into the app it automatically took us here.
That means our codes are working and we're in a good place.
So we can kind of check that box off.
The next thing that we need to do is we need to sort of modify this query to handle our situation.
So the big one is we want to make sure that we when we get all the user objects that we don't get the
current user that's logged in.
So we're going to factor that into our queries by saying queery where not equal to.
And here we're going to say wherever the user name and the next première that we're passing inside of
here is the current user's username to say hey we don't want this particular user sorgen say parse user
get current user and get username and this will be a good check to see hey if you know there's we're
going to get the whole list we shouldn't show our name in that list once we have this in place.
We're also going to modify this query and say that we want it to come in a particular order.
So we're going to say queery that ad and you can do ascending or descending but we're going to do ascending
order and we want all these users to be sorted by their user name.
So this will kind of make things look a little bit nicer things will be alphabetical that's actually
one of my biggest gripes of instagram is that when I look at people who are following me or people that
I'm following like that big list of people it's not in alphabetical it doesn't seem to be related to
time just like a random mess that always drives me crazy.
But next step for us is k so we said we don't want ourselves who want to in this particular order.
Now we just have to go ahead and execute the query.
So we're going to say queery dot find in background.
And with this we're going to hopefully get back a list of user objects so we're going to create a new
find callback.
And with this you can see it gives us back a list of parse user objects so all these callbacks have
a little bit of different names.
You've got to be ready to find those different ones but you can see we can get a list of these user
objects an exception.
So with this the first thing that we want to check is just see hey do we have any errors with this thing.
So we're going to say hey if B is equal to no.
That means we probably have no errors and we can move forward but are else in that situation is we've
got some sort of air and so we'll just do a print stack trace on that.
But assuming that we have no heirs let's make sure that we have an actual list of objects.
So we'll do another if statement here to check the size so we're going to say if objects that size is
greater than zero this will just be one more check to make sure we've got what we think we have.
Then inside we're going to finish up here with a for loop.
So this for loop is going to move through all these objects which are a bunch of users.
So we're going to say capital parse user will give us the name of users we loop through.
We wanted to go through all the objects and once we're here we want to extract the user names and put
them inside of our re list of user names.
While I'm looking at this we can probably get rid of our test users so we'll go ahead and delete that
but we'll say all right user names got ADD.
And we simply just want to go ahead and take whatever user We're currently working through in the survey.
And we're going to or excuse me list and we want to get your name and simply add that in there.
OK.
Then the only other thing that we want to change about this is you know we've done all the correct stuff
to get the list view and you know get an array adapter and stuff but we only want to set the adapter
here after we've gone through this for that.
So we're going to move that line of code down here so that we can have access to it.
So with all of this in place let's go ahead and run our app and see if we can't get this to show up.
So we'll go ahead and give this a second here.
While it's going I want to show you a cool feature of parce here and that's that you can add new items
to a class over here on the web.
So here I have our users right.
I can hit the plus button to make a new user.
We'd have to give it a user name here and I don't know why it's there we go it's up at the top here
so maybe I can give it the user name of Sarah and we're going to have to give Sarah a password maybe
something like let's stick with our ABC 1 2 3 so we can remember who these are but look at that we've
also added a new user.
So let's look at our emulator right now it's only showing Nick because we logged in as John so we know
at least we're getting one user back but now that we've added Sarah we should see Sarah and Nick showing
up.
So let's go ahead and run this one more time.
Oh.
Trying to get the Android studio here let's run this one more time.
So I hope you enjoyed seeing you.
You can add things manually here.
But with that we should see now.
Nick and Sarah.
OK.
So it wasn't all that much code.
Now we have successfully a list of all the users excluding ourselves.
And you'll notice the order of things is not exactly perfect with the capitalization of things.
It doesn't take that into account or it does take it into account so like the Capitals work there in
fact if we go ahead and make this lower case Sarah and then we go and run this one more time.
You'll notice how that changes so that's a little bit of a frustrating thing.
I think at least that happens with this app.
But let's go ahead and open up and look now it does that so a little bit something to keep in mind as
you're moving forward.
But we're making good progress on this but we haven't even added the ability to upload photos So still
plenty of left to go in this project.